In this video we learn about linear search.
Actually there are two search methods.
First one is a linear search.
Second one is binary search, that I will cover in the next video.
So let us understand what is linear search. first thing,
Searching searching is a process of finding the location of an element.
So look at here.
I have a list of elements so we know well that list of elements are stored in the array.
Yes they are stored in an arrays of size 10 and then this 10 here.
And in this I want the search for element.
So searching element is usually called as a key, we say we're searching for this key 12.
So 12 key I already know what I have to find out.
I have to find out where it is. I know 12,
but where it is, I want to find out.
So inside this, where is 12.
So 12
is found here.
Yes.
That's what I want to find out.
Index of that element, that is six.
So I want location of that element.
That's what searching is, now.
First method, that is linear search.
What is the search method.
How it works.
See suppose you have some books in a shelf in rack.
They are not sorted.
You are searching for a book.
So you have to look at the books one by one until you find that element or find a book that you are
searching for.
So same process we will adopt here.
That is linear search, that is linear search, 12 so for finding 12 i will start from here
checking the element one by one.
Is it twelve.
No.
Is it 12.
No no no no.
Yes it is found.
So we stop here.
Once we got the elements, search is successful and we stop. we got the index six.
This is the search method.
So for searching that I have to compare all the elements one by one.
until i reach that element.
Now I'll take one more key element.
Let us see suppose,
I want to search for a key element that is 35.
Let us search for it.
35.
No it's not 35.
No no no no no.
I have reached the end.
So I have reached the elements elements are finished and I did not get the element.
So search is unsuccessful.
And I did not find that element.
So here.
Search was successful and the index found was 6.
And here it is unsuccessful.
So search may be successful or unsuccessful so depending on the key that you are searching it be found.
It may not be fun.
So it's a simple procedure.
So let us write a C++ program for that one. now here
Already you have written a few things right.
Let us learn about these things right.
I have something new to show you here.
See.
I have taken an array of size 10 and n is also 10.
Here if you want to take a bigger size array you can take any size 10,20,30,40
100.
Any size you can take.
And here I have not initialized an array, so in the previous programs.
If you see, I was directly storing the elements I was initializing the array, here I'm not initializing
I'm taking all the elements from keyboard as input from the user.
So for that I have given a message enter numbers, now using for loop and cin I'm reading on the elements
so we know well that.
How to scan all the locations of an array using for loop.
You can scan all the locations from the previous examples we have displayed the array  and found the sum of all
the elements but not this time
We are eating the elements from the keyboard and reads an array
So suppose these values are coming from the keyboard.
So if you run this program you'll have to enter the values of six eleven twenty five.
So on you have to enter all the values.
Then next thing after taking all these elements here I'm taking key also.
What do you want to search.
After giving the elements then you can give a search key so key may be present in this one may not be
present in this one, so if it is present we should get the index.
If it is not there then we should get the message that it is not found or
it is unsuccessful.
so we will say not found.
So whatever the key you like you can enter it,
This will be taken from the keyboard.
Now we are ready with the data as well as the key.
No you have to perform linear search, so here i will write down a procedure for linear search.
So let us look at what we were doing.
We were comparing the element one by one starting from the first element.
So it means we are scanning through an array,  so how we can scan through an array, using
for loop
Yes.
Here also I will use for loop.
So first of all I will write down the for loop.
Then I will tell you further.
So using for loop we will start.
I start from zero.
Right.
So here I am so I should declare.
Otherwise you can write int i here, every time you can write
You can write.
It's a good practice in C++.
writing here only int i and int i.
Anyway I have declared it out side.
I is less than n and then I plus plus,  each time what I should do, I should check it that
This key value is equal toA[i] if it is equal it is found so I should check if key is equals to A[i]
equals to, comparision.
Write A[i].
….
If it is equal means, key is found so I should give a message keys is found.
So Cout give a message found.
I will just write found.
Found.
At, What is the index.
See if it is found at 6, 6 is the index.
So here I should display 6, so that is  nothing but I. that is i.
I so found at index 6.
If the key is 12, that's all, then once you got the key you should stop the program.
So here itself I will write return zero.
So you remember.
we are writing return zero at the end of the main function so that will stop the function.
But anyway it's going to stop.
So here if you write a return zero function on the main function of the program will stop next.
This is inside.
If only then outside this for loop
If suppose the key is not found 35 is not there then this for loop will repeat n times and this condition
is never true.
It will come out of this for loop then outside.
We have sat the same key is not found.
So here.
No need of checking anything see.
Most people get confused here.
I have to check here.
No don't check anything.
mostly students get confused, inside
If there write found, else not found.
So no not inside  for loop. see after completely checking the whole array then only you can say it's not
found.
So you have to come out of the for loop to say not found, so outside the for loop say not found.
that's all. after this return statement and end of main function.
So this portion is for linear search, this portion is linear search
So that's all about this one.
You have to practice this program right.
And also there is a video that is a Demo Available For This One.
I have written the program and execute it for execution I have shown you you can watch that in the next
video and there is according exercise available in this you have to print the message found or not found.
So you have to write only the for loop.
this array and n, everything will be given so complete that coding exercise and also right
on this complete program by yourself on your machine and practice it.
OK.
So you can take the program and do it.
That's all in this video.